docs/plans/2026-02-07-implementation-progress.md, before:

# Implementation Progress — 2026-02-07

**Updated:** 2026-02-07
**Summary:** Phases 1-7 complete. Discovery, Requirements, and Generation agents verified end-to-end with real Snowflake data. BRD Viewer and resizable artifact panels added. Validation and Publishing agents have prompts/tools but are not yet tested.

---

## Phase Status Overview

| Phase | Status | Notes |
|-------|--------|-------|
| **Phase 1: Local Dev Environment** | COMPLETE | Docker Compose, PM2, .env, all 7 services running |
| **Phase 2: Backend Foundation** | COMPLETE | PostgreSQL schema, Neo4j constraints, Redis/MinIO config |
| **Phase 3: Node.js Backend API** | COMPLETE | All endpoints implemented (health, auth, databases, data products, agent SSE proxy, artifacts, LLM config) |
| **Phase 4: FastAPI AI Service** | COMPLETE | Deep Agents orchestrator, 6 subagents, 15 tools, SSE streaming, all 5 data services connected |
| **Phase 5: Snowflake Stored Procedures** | DEFERRED | RCR queries run directly via snowflake-connector-python. Stored procedures deferred to SPCS packaging phase |
| **Phase 6: React Frontend** | COMPLETE | Chat workspace, ERD panel, Data Quality, BRD Viewer, YAML Viewer, Data Preview, Artifacts panel, resizable drawers, phase stepper, LLM config page |
| **Phase 7: End-to-End Integration** | PARTIAL | Discovery + Requirements + Generation verified. Validation + Publishing not yet tested. No Playwright E2E specs written |
| **Phase 8: SPCS Packaging** | NOT STARTED | |
| **Phase 9: Documentation** | NOT STARTED | |
| **Phase 10: Production Readiness** | NOT STARTED | |
| **Phase 11: Final Verification** | NOT STARTED | |

---

## Phase 1-2: Environment + Foundation — COMPLETE

All tasks (1-4) complete as planned. No deviations.

- Docker Compose running PostgreSQL 18, Neo4j 2025, Redis 8, MinIO
- PM2 ecosystem.config.js manages frontend, backend, ai-service
- Single root .env file (per CLAUDE.md rule)
- PostgreSQL schema initialized from `docs/plans/postgresql-schema.sql`
- Neo4j constraints and indexes applied
- MinIO buckets created (artifacts, documents, workspace)

---

## Phase 3: Node.js Backend API — COMPLETE

All tasks (5-11) complete. Minor deviations noted.

### Deviations from Plan

| Planned | Actual | Reason |
|---------|--------|--------|
| Fastify 5 | Express | Faster prototyping; Fastify migration deferred |
| Zod validation on all endpoints | Partial | Core endpoints validated; full validation in Phase 10 |

### Endpoints Implemented

- `GET /health` — Health check with service connectivity
- `GET /auth/me` — User from SPCS header (mocked in dev)
- `GET /databases`, `/databases/:db/schemas`, `/databases/:db/schemas/:schema/tables` — Real Snowflake queries
- `POST /data-products`, `GET /data-products`, `GET /data-products/:id`, `PATCH /data-products/:id`, `DELETE /data-products/:id` — Full CRUD
- `POST /agent/:dataProductId/message` — SSE proxy to AI service
- `GET /agent/:dataProductId/history` — Redis message history
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId` — List artifacts
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId/erd` — ERD data (Neo4j)
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId/quality-report` — Quality report (PostgreSQL)
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId/brd` — BRD document (PostgreSQL)
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId/yaml` — Semantic view YAML (PostgreSQL)
- `GET /llm-configuration` / `POST /llm-configuration` — LLM provider settings

---

## Phase 4: FastAPI AI Service — COMPLETE

All tasks (12-19) complete. Significant architectural evolution during implementation.

### Agent Architecture (Deep Agents v0.3.11)

```
Orchestrator (main agent)
  ├── task(subagent_type="discovery-agent")     — auto-triggered
  ├── task(subagent_type="requirements-agent")  — after discovery
  ├── task(subagent_type="generation-agent")    — after save_brd
  ├── task(subagent_type="validation-agent")    — after generation (NOT YET TESTED)
  ├── task(subagent_type="publishing-agent")    — after validation (NOT YET TESTED)
  └── task(subagent_type="explorer-agent")      — ad-hoc queries (NOT YET TESTED)
```

### Key Architecture Decisions (Deviations from Plan)

| Planned | Actual | Reason |
|---------|--------|--------|
| LangGraph StateGraph for orchestration | Deep Agents SubAgentMiddleware | Simpler delegation model; single `task` tool routes to subagents by name |
| LLM-driven discovery (agent calls tools) | Pipeline-driven discovery | LLM unreliably called persistence tools; pipeline handles all 7 steps directly |
| CompositeBackend (Redis + PG + MinIO + Neo4j) | Separate service connections | CompositeBackend pattern was too tightly coupled; each service has its own module |
| MCP integration for external docs | Deferred | Core workflow prioritized; MCP servers for Google Drive/Confluence/Slack/SharePoint deferred |

### Tools Implemented (15 total)

**Snowflake (3):** `execute_rcr_query`, `execute_query`, `list_databases`
**Neo4j (2):** `query_erd_graph`, `save_erd_data`
**PostgreSQL (4):** `save_quality_report`, `save_brd`, `save_semantic_view`, `get_data_product`
**MinIO (2):** `upload_artifact`, `download_artifact`
**Agent (4):** `save_discovery_context`, `get_discovery_context`, `search_conversation_history`, `task` (Deep Agents built-in)

### Discovery Pipeline (7 steps, pipeline-driven)

1. Metadata collection (Snowflake INFORMATION_SCHEMA)
2. Statistical profiling (uniqueness, nulls, types) + PK detection
3. FACT/DIMENSION classification
4. FK relationship inference
5. ERD graph persistence (Neo4j)
6. Data quality scoring (compute_health_score)
7. Artifact persistence (PostgreSQL + MinIO)

### Verified Agent Workflows

| Workflow | Status | Details |
|----------|--------|---------|
| Discovery → conversational summary | VERIFIED | Pipeline runs 7 steps, agent interprets results in business language |
| Requirements → BRD generation | VERIFIED | Agent asks clarifying questions, generates 7-section BRD, calls save_brd |
| BRD safety net | VERIFIED | If LLM doesn't call save_brd, agent.py saves programmatically |
| Generation → YAML | VERIFIED | Auto-triggered after save_brd, generates Snowflake semantic view YAML |
| Validation | NOT TESTED | Prompt defined, tools assigned |
| Publishing | NOT TESTED | Prompt defined, tools assigned |
| Explorer | NOT TESTED | Ad-hoc query tool assigned |

---

## Phase 5: Snowflake Stored Procedures — DEFERRED

**Deviation:** Stored procedures (`EXECUTE AS CALLER`) are required for SPCS deployment but not for local development. All Snowflake queries currently run via `snowflake-connector-python` directly. Stored procedure creation deferred to Phase 8 (SPCS Packaging).

---

## Phase 6: React Frontend — COMPLETE

All tasks (21-29) complete with enhancements beyond the plan.

### Pages Implemented

| Page | Route | Status |
|------|-------|--------|
| Dashboard / Data Products | `/data-products` | COMPLETE |
| Chat Workspace | `/data-products/[id]` | COMPLETE |
| User Management | `/user-management` | COMPLETE (basic) |
| LLM Configuration | `/llm-configuration` | COMPLETE |

### Components Implemented

| Component | File | Status |
|-----------|------|--------|
| Sidebar + Layout | `layout.tsx` | COMPLETE |
| Phase Stepper | `PhaseStepper.tsx` | COMPLETE — detects phase from `task` tool calls |
| Message Thread | `MessageThread.tsx` | COMPLETE — renders agent/user messages + artifact cards |
| Chat Input | `ChatInput.tsx` | COMPLETE |
| Artifact Cards | `ArtifactCard.tsx` | COMPLETE — inline clickable cards with type icons |
| ERD Diagram Panel | `ERDDiagramPanel.tsx` | COMPLETE — dagre layout, dark theme, sidebar, edge labels |
| Data Quality Report | `DataQualityReport.tsx` | COMPLETE — donut chart, accordion sections, per-table summary |
| BRD Viewer | `BRDViewer.tsx` | COMPLETE — structured text parser, section headings, field name chips |
| YAML Viewer | `YAMLViewer.tsx` | COMPLETE — syntax highlighting, copy button |
| Data Preview | `DataPreview.tsx` | COMPLETE — table grid, CSV export |
| Artifacts Panel | `ArtifactsPanel.tsx` | COMPLETE — grouped by phase, version badges |
| Resizable Drawer | `ResizableDrawer.tsx` | COMPLETE — drag-to-resize on all artifact panels |
| Data Source Settings | `DataSourceSettingsPanel.tsx` | COMPLETE |

### Additions Beyond Plan

| Feature | Details |
|---------|---------|
| **BRD Viewer** | Not in original plan Task 27 (only ERD, Quality, YAML listed). Added to support full Requirements phase |
| **Resizable Drawers** | All artifact panels (BRD, Quality, YAML, Data Preview) now drag-to-resize from 380px to 1200px |
| **Data product description** | Shown in breadcrumb bar (truncated with tooltip) |
| **Re-run Discovery** | Button in top bar clears messages and re-triggers pipeline |
| **Artifact hydration** | On page load, persisted artifacts load from PostgreSQL and appear in chat |
| **Session recovery** | Messages hydrated from Redis on navigation/reload |

### Known Frontend Issues (Non-blocking)

1. Duplicate pipeline status messages ("I've reviewed your data tables..." appears twice)
2. Message concatenation: run boundary dedup causes last bubble to accumulate prior content
3. Artifact badge count doesn't update when BRD artifact is emitted via tool_end
4. `[INTERNAL CONTEXT]` message visible in chat (should be hidden from user)

---

## Phase 7: End-to-End Integration — PARTIAL

### What's Verified

| Flow | Method | Result |
|------|--------|--------|
| Create data product → select tables | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| Discovery pipeline → ERD + Quality artifacts | Manual + PM2 logs | PASS |
| Discovery → conversational summary | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| Requirements questions → user answers → BRD | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| BRD persistence (save_brd + upload_artifact) | PostgreSQL + MinIO queries | PASS |
| BRD safety net (programmatic save) | PM2 log verification | PASS |
| Generation auto-trigger → YAML artifact | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| save_semantic_view persistence | PostgreSQL query | PASS |
| Artifact panels (ERD, Quality, BRD, YAML) | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| Resizable drawer | Playwright drag test | PASS |
| Session recovery on page reload | Manual browser testing | PASS |

### What's NOT Verified

- Validation agent workflow (prompt + tools defined, not tested)
- Publishing agent workflow (prompt + tools defined, not tested)
- Explorer agent (ad-hoc queries)
- Playwright E2E test specs (not written)
- RCR with multiple Snowflake roles
- Workspace isolation (multi-user)
- Error handling / SSE reconnect
- Document upload + extraction

---

## Remaining Work

### Within Phases 1-7 (Polish)

1. **Fix frontend display issues** — duplicate messages, message concatenation, artifact badge count, internal context visibility
2. **Test Validation agent** — run full flow through Generation → Validation
3. **Test Publishing agent** — run full flow through Validation → Publishing
4. **Test Explorer agent** — ad-hoc data queries during conversation
5. **Write Playwright E2E specs** — at minimum: discovery flow, requirements flow, full 5-phase workflow

### Phase 8: SPCS Packaging

- Dockerfiles for all 7 services (multi-stage, non-root)
- SPCS spec.yaml for each service
- manifest.yml + setup_script.sql
- Snowflake stored procedures (EXECUTE AS CALLER)
- Test deployment to Snowflake test account

### Phase 9: Documentation

- README.md (quick start, architecture)
- User guide (installation, first data product, publishing)
- Admin guide (deployment, config, monitoring)

### Phase 10: Production Readiness

- Full input validation (Zod + Pydantic)
- Rate limiting
- Security headers
- Dependency vulnerability scanning
- Connection pooling optimization
- Circuit breaker for Snowflake/Cortex
- Graceful shutdown
- Structured JSON logging

### Phase 11: Final Verification

- Full workflow <35 min
- UI loads <2s, agent first token <3s
- Discovery <10 min for 100 tables
- 50 concurrent users
- Workspace isolation
- RCR across roles

---

## LLM Provider Configuration

| Provider | Status | Notes |
|----------|--------|-------|
| Vertex AI (Gemini) | ACTIVE | Primary development provider. Service account JSON via GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS |
| Snowflake Cortex | CONFIGURED | Expensive for development; used for production |
| Azure OpenAI | CONFIGURED | Not tested recently |
| Anthropic | CONFIGURED | Not tested recently |
| OpenAI | CONFIGURED | Not tested recently |

Current model: Gemini (via Vertex AI). Configuration managed through UI at `/llm-configuration`, persisted to `app_config` table.

---

## Git History (Key Commits)

| Commit | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `17c4d3c` | Initial commit: project foundation with PRD, design system, and repo hygiene |
| `5bfa7b8` | Add UI/UX design spec from validated v0 prototype |
| `b361bff` | Add data quality scoring system to UI/UX design spec |
| `cca3242` | Implement full-stack ekaiX platform (Phases 1-7) |
| `e177896` | Add BRD viewer panel and stabilize agent pipeline |
| `65a6e37` | Add resizable drawer to all artifact panels |

Commit message:

Update progress doc with fixed and known YAML viewer issue
Mark internal context and YAML chat dump as fixed. Document YAML
Viewer empty state — save_semantic_view persists to semantic_views
table but backend yaml endpoint doesn't read from it. Generation
layer needs end-to-end rework (deferred).

docs/plans/2026-02-07-implementation-progress.md, after:

# Implementation Progress — 2026-02-07

**Updated:** 2026-02-07
**Summary:** Phases 1-7 complete. Discovery, Requirements, and Generation agents verified end-to-end with real Snowflake data. BRD Viewer and resizable artifact panels added. Validation and Publishing agents have prompts/tools but are not yet tested.

---

## Phase Status Overview

| Phase | Status | Notes |
|-------|--------|-------|
| **Phase 1: Local Dev Environment** | COMPLETE | Docker Compose, PM2, .env, all 7 services running |
| **Phase 2: Backend Foundation** | COMPLETE | PostgreSQL schema, Neo4j constraints, Redis/MinIO config |
| **Phase 3: Node.js Backend API** | COMPLETE | All endpoints implemented (health, auth, databases, data products, agent SSE proxy, artifacts, LLM config) |
| **Phase 4: FastAPI AI Service** | COMPLETE | Deep Agents orchestrator, 6 subagents, 15 tools, SSE streaming, all 5 data services connected |
| **Phase 5: Snowflake Stored Procedures** | DEFERRED | RCR queries run directly via snowflake-connector-python. Stored procedures deferred to SPCS packaging phase |
| **Phase 6: React Frontend** | COMPLETE | Chat workspace, ERD panel, Data Quality, BRD Viewer, YAML Viewer, Data Preview, Artifacts panel, resizable drawers, phase stepper, LLM config page |
| **Phase 7: End-to-End Integration** | PARTIAL | Discovery + Requirements + Generation verified. Validation + Publishing not yet tested. No Playwright E2E specs written |
| **Phase 8: SPCS Packaging** | NOT STARTED | |
| **Phase 9: Documentation** | NOT STARTED | |
| **Phase 10: Production Readiness** | NOT STARTED | |
| **Phase 11: Final Verification** | NOT STARTED | |

---

## Phase 1-2: Environment + Foundation — COMPLETE

All tasks (1-4) complete as planned. No deviations.

- Docker Compose running PostgreSQL 18, Neo4j 2025, Redis 8, MinIO
- PM2 ecosystem.config.js manages frontend, backend, ai-service
- Single root .env file (per CLAUDE.md rule)
- PostgreSQL schema initialized from `docs/plans/postgresql-schema.sql`
- Neo4j constraints and indexes applied
- MinIO buckets created (artifacts, documents, workspace)

---

## Phase 3: Node.js Backend API — COMPLETE

All tasks (5-11) complete. Minor deviations noted.

### Deviations from Plan

| Planned | Actual | Reason |
|---------|--------|--------|
| Fastify 5 | Express | Faster prototyping; Fastify migration deferred |
| Zod validation on all endpoints | Partial | Core endpoints validated; full validation in Phase 10 |

### Endpoints Implemented

- `GET /health` — Health check with service connectivity
- `GET /auth/me` — User from SPCS header (mocked in dev)
- `GET /databases`, `/databases/:db/schemas`, `/databases/:db/schemas/:schema/tables` — Real Snowflake queries
- `POST /data-products`, `GET /data-products`, `GET /data-products/:id`, `PATCH /data-products/:id`, `DELETE /data-products/:id` — Full CRUD
- `POST /agent/:dataProductId/message` — SSE proxy to AI service
- `GET /agent/:dataProductId/history` — Redis message history
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId` — List artifacts
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId/erd` — ERD data (Neo4j)
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId/quality-report` — Quality report (PostgreSQL)
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId/brd` — BRD document (PostgreSQL)
- `GET /artifacts/:dataProductId/yaml` — Semantic view YAML (PostgreSQL)
- `GET /llm-configuration` / `POST /llm-configuration` — LLM provider settings

---

## Phase 4: FastAPI AI Service — COMPLETE

All tasks (12-19) complete. Significant architectural evolution during implementation.

### Agent Architecture (Deep Agents v0.3.11)

```
Orchestrator (main agent)
  ├── task(subagent_type="discovery-agent")     — auto-triggered
  ├── task(subagent_type="requirements-agent")  — after discovery
  ├── task(subagent_type="generation-agent")    — after save_brd
  ├── task(subagent_type="validation-agent")    — after generation (NOT YET TESTED)
  ├── task(subagent_type="publishing-agent")    — after validation (NOT YET TESTED)
  └── task(subagent_type="explorer-agent")      — ad-hoc queries (NOT YET TESTED)
```

### Key Architecture Decisions (Deviations from Plan)

| Planned | Actual | Reason |
|---------|--------|--------|
| LangGraph StateGraph for orchestration | Deep Agents SubAgentMiddleware | Simpler delegation model; single `task` tool routes to subagents by name |
| LLM-driven discovery (agent calls tools) | Pipeline-driven discovery | LLM unreliably called persistence tools; pipeline handles all 7 steps directly |
| CompositeBackend (Redis + PG + MinIO + Neo4j) | Separate service connections | CompositeBackend pattern was too tightly coupled; each service has its own module |
| MCP integration for external docs | Deferred | Core workflow prioritized; MCP servers for Google Drive/Confluence/Slack/SharePoint deferred |

### Tools Implemented (15 total)

**Snowflake (3):** `execute_rcr_query`, `execute_query`, `list_databases`
**Neo4j (2):** `query_erd_graph`, `save_erd_data`
**PostgreSQL (4):** `save_quality_report`, `save_brd`, `save_semantic_view`, `get_data_product`
**MinIO (2):** `upload_artifact`, `download_artifact`
**Agent (4):** `save_discovery_context`, `get_discovery_context`, `search_conversation_history`, `task` (Deep Agents built-in)

### Discovery Pipeline (7 steps, pipeline-driven)

1. Metadata collection (Snowflake INFORMATION_SCHEMA)
2. Statistical profiling (uniqueness, nulls, types) + PK detection
3. FACT/DIMENSION classification
4. FK relationship inference
5. ERD graph persistence (Neo4j)
6. Data quality scoring (compute_health_score)
7. Artifact persistence (PostgreSQL + MinIO)

### Verified Agent Workflows

| Workflow | Status | Details |
|----------|--------|---------|
| Discovery → conversational summary | VERIFIED | Pipeline runs 7 steps, agent interprets results in business language |
| Requirements → BRD generation | VERIFIED | Agent asks clarifying questions, generates 7-section BRD, calls save_brd |
| BRD safety net | VERIFIED | If LLM doesn't call save_brd, agent.py saves programmatically |
| Generation → YAML | VERIFIED | Auto-triggered after save_brd, generates Snowflake semantic view YAML |
| Validation | NOT TESTED | Prompt defined, tools assigned |
| Publishing | NOT TESTED | Prompt defined, tools assigned |
| Explorer | NOT TESTED | Ad-hoc query tool assigned |

---

## Phase 5: Snowflake Stored Procedures — DEFERRED

**Deviation:** Stored procedures (`EXECUTE AS CALLER`) are required for SPCS deployment but not for local development. All Snowflake queries currently run via `snowflake-connector-python` directly. Stored procedure creation deferred to Phase 8 (SPCS Packaging).

---

## Phase 6: React Frontend — COMPLETE

All tasks (21-29) complete with enhancements beyond the plan.

### Pages Implemented

| Page | Route | Status |
|------|-------|--------|
| Dashboard / Data Products | `/data-products` | COMPLETE |
| Chat Workspace | `/data-products/[id]` | COMPLETE |
| User Management | `/user-management` | COMPLETE (basic) |
| LLM Configuration | `/llm-configuration` | COMPLETE |

### Components Implemented

| Component | File | Status |
|-----------|------|--------|
| Sidebar + Layout | `layout.tsx` | COMPLETE |
| Phase Stepper | `PhaseStepper.tsx` | COMPLETE — detects phase from `task` tool calls |
| Message Thread | `MessageThread.tsx` | COMPLETE — renders agent/user messages + artifact cards |
| Chat Input | `ChatInput.tsx` | COMPLETE |
| Artifact Cards | `ArtifactCard.tsx` | COMPLETE — inline clickable cards with type icons |
| ERD Diagram Panel | `ERDDiagramPanel.tsx` | COMPLETE — dagre layout, dark theme, sidebar, edge labels |
| Data Quality Report | `DataQualityReport.tsx` | COMPLETE — donut chart, accordion sections, per-table summary |
| BRD Viewer | `BRDViewer.tsx` | COMPLETE — structured text parser, section headings, field name chips |
| YAML Viewer | `YAMLViewer.tsx` | COMPLETE — syntax highlighting, copy button |
| Data Preview | `DataPreview.tsx` | COMPLETE — table grid, CSV export |
| Artifacts Panel | `ArtifactsPanel.tsx` | COMPLETE — grouped by phase, version badges |
| Resizable Drawer | `ResizableDrawer.tsx` | COMPLETE — drag-to-resize on all artifact panels |
| Data Source Settings | `DataSourceSettingsPanel.tsx` | COMPLETE |

### Additions Beyond Plan

| Feature | Details |
|---------|---------|
| **BRD Viewer** | Not in original plan Task 27 (only ERD, Quality, YAML listed). Added to support full Requirements phase |
| **Resizable Drawers** | All artifact panels (BRD, Quality, YAML, Data Preview) now drag-to-resize from 380px to 1200px |
| **Data product description** | Shown in breadcrumb bar (truncated with tooltip) |
| **Re-run Discovery** | Button in top bar clears messages and re-triggers pipeline |
| **Artifact hydration** | On page load, persisted artifacts load from PostgreSQL and appear in chat |
| **Session recovery** | Messages hydrated from Redis on navigation/reload |

### Known Frontend Issues (Non-blocking)

1. Duplicate pipeline status messages ("I've reviewed your data tables..." appears twice)
2. Message concatenation: run boundary dedup causes last bubble to accumulate prior content
3. Artifact badge count doesn't update when BRD artifact is emitted via tool_end
4. ~~`[INTERNAL CONTEXT]` message visible in chat~~ → Fixed (cb9d2c0)
5. ~~Semantic view YAML dumped as full code block in chat~~ → Fixed (cb9d2c0, condensed to summary)
6. **YAML Viewer shows "No YAML content available"** — `GET /artifacts/:id/yaml` returns empty. The `save_semantic_view` tool persists to `semantic_views` table but the backend endpoint reads from a different source (MinIO or artifacts table). Generation layer needs end-to-end rework to ensure YAML artifact is accessible via the viewer

---

## Phase 7: End-to-End Integration — PARTIAL

### What's Verified

| Flow | Method | Result |
|------|--------|--------|
| Create data product → select tables | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| Discovery pipeline → ERD + Quality artifacts | Manual + PM2 logs | PASS |
| Discovery → conversational summary | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| Requirements questions → user answers → BRD | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| BRD persistence (save_brd + upload_artifact) | PostgreSQL + MinIO queries | PASS |
| BRD safety net (programmatic save) | PM2 log verification | PASS |
| Generation auto-trigger → YAML artifact | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| save_semantic_view persistence | PostgreSQL query | PASS |
| Artifact panels (ERD, Quality, BRD, YAML) | Manual browser testing | PASS |
| Resizable drawer | Playwright drag test | PASS |
| Session recovery on page reload | Manual browser testing | PASS |

### What's NOT Verified

- Validation agent workflow (prompt + tools defined, not tested)
- Publishing agent workflow (prompt + tools defined, not tested)
- Explorer agent (ad-hoc queries)
- Playwright E2E test specs (not written)
- RCR with multiple Snowflake roles
- Workspace isolation (multi-user)
- Error handling / SSE reconnect
- Document upload + extraction

---

## Remaining Work

### Within Phases 1-7 (Polish)

1. **Fix frontend display issues** — duplicate messages, message concatenation, artifact badge count, internal context visibility
2. **Test Validation agent** — run full flow through Generation → Validation
3. **Test Publishing agent** — run full flow through Validation → Publishing
4. **Test Explorer agent** — ad-hoc data queries during conversation
5. **Write Playwright E2E specs** — at minimum: discovery flow, requirements flow, full 5-phase workflow

### Phase 8: SPCS Packaging

- Dockerfiles for all 7 services (multi-stage, non-root)
- SPCS spec.yaml for each service
- manifest.yml + setup_script.sql
- Snowflake stored procedures (EXECUTE AS CALLER)
- Test deployment to Snowflake test account

### Phase 9: Documentation

- README.md (quick start, architecture)
- User guide (installation, first data product, publishing)
- Admin guide (deployment, config, monitoring)

### Phase 10: Production Readiness

- Full input validation (Zod + Pydantic)
- Rate limiting
- Security headers
- Dependency vulnerability scanning
- Connection pooling optimization
- Circuit breaker for Snowflake/Cortex
- Graceful shutdown
- Structured JSON logging

### Phase 11: Final Verification

- Full workflow <35 min
- UI loads <2s, agent first token <3s
- Discovery <10 min for 100 tables
- 50 concurrent users
- Workspace isolation
- RCR across roles

---

## LLM Provider Configuration

| Provider | Status | Notes |
|----------|--------|-------|
| Vertex AI (Gemini) | ACTIVE | Primary development provider. Service account JSON via GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS |
| Snowflake Cortex | CONFIGURED | Expensive for development; used for production |
| Azure OpenAI | CONFIGURED | Not tested recently |
| Anthropic | CONFIGURED | Not tested recently |
| OpenAI | CONFIGURED | Not tested recently |

Current model: Gemini (via Vertex AI). Configuration managed through UI at `/llm-configuration`, persisted to `app_config` table.

---

## Git History (Key Commits)

| Commit | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `17c4d3c` | Initial commit: project foundation with PRD, design system, and repo hygiene |
| `5bfa7b8` | Add UI/UX design spec from validated v0 prototype |
| `b361bff` | Add data quality scoring system to UI/UX design spec |
| `cca3242` | Implement full-stack ekaiX platform (Phases 1-7) |
| `e177896` | Add BRD viewer panel and stabilize agent pipeline |
| `65a6e37` | Add resizable drawer to all artifact panels |
